# AO Nodes

An AO node is a computer, somewhere, running softwarw which adheres to the AO
Spec. The client implementation is called [HyperBEAM](https://hyperbeam.arweave.net).

This piece of software is much like the software that Ethereum node operators run. It is
what connects different nodes to each other, handles transactions, and more. 

For now, let's focus on the primary purpose of these nodes - performing
computation. 

Users want to be able to do things. They want to transfer tokens from one account to another, they want to swap tokens on decentralized exchanges, and interact with different types of smart contracts. 

Like many blockchains, these are some of the things that AO can facilitate. AO
does this through two different primary mechanisms: processes and messages.

## Processes

On AO, smart contracts are colloquially referred to as **processes**. 

Processes on AO are written in a programming language called Lua. Developers
write **handlers** which as you might expect "handle" different types of
transactions. 

For example, a decentralized exchange built on AO might have a process with the handlers "swap", "deposit", and "withdraw".

If a user sends a transaction of type "swap", the process runs the relevant code
to handle a swap. If it is deposit, it will run the code in the process for deposit the user's tokens into a pool. And so on.


## Messages

Transactions that users send to processes are referred to as **messages** on AO. Processes can also create and send messages to one another, much like how smart contracts can call other smart contracts.

Messages function identically to transactions, and in reality are signed transactions which get settled onchain (which we'll look more into later).

## Inboxes and Outboxes

Every process has an **Inbox**, which accepts incoming, ordered messages. You can
think of this kind of like a list of pending transactions for a smart contract waiting to be
processed. A process will read these messages in and perform any actions needed.

Processes also have an **Outbox**, which contains messages generated by the
process itself. These could be messages to either send onwards to another process, or update its own state.

## Scheduled tasks

A unique feature of AO is the ability to run **scheduled tasks**. Developers,
and users as well for that matter, can run [CRON jobs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron)
which periodically send a message or perform some kind of action from a process.

Let's look at how these nodes communicate with each other and the unique aspect
of transactions, or messages, on AO.
